We want to install a gateway and at the moment, we are not really sure what that actually is and why
we would need that
and additionally, we have to decide between two gateway types.
Let's think about that.
So this is the current situation that we have,
we have our Power BI desktop file on our local computer and we use the publish function and then the
connect to file function and we saw that both functions basically imported our data into Power BI service.
Now the important thing is when we try to press refresh,
so to update the data from Power BI service, let's assume we change the data in Power BI service,
a visualization for instance or something in a dataset,
then this didn't work.
The reason for that is that with that first option right now, we only imported the data, we didn't establish
a real connection between Power BI service and Power BI desktop.
So this is not a really good solution
if you want to refresh your data, daily for instance or once a week and this is why you need a gateway
because the gateway allows you to create that connection and to refresh the data whenever you want or
even to schedule a refresh, so that you can decide that you want to refresh your data once a day
at the same time. Now we have two gateway types,
the first gateway type is the personal gateway right here
and it does exactly what it should do,
it establishes that connection between your computer and Power BI service, really great.
There is one disadvantage maybe with that personal gateway,
it's a pro feature.
Now you can use the basic functions of the gateway
also in the free Power BI version but to really be able to use the full functionalities, for instance to
schedule the refresh to where you prefer it, you have to use the pro function
but the important thing is that you should use the personal gateway if your file is located on a computer,
so on a local computer, on your computer for instance.
But then we have a second option, this Power BI Desktop file might be located on a server, right here
for instance. If this is the case, then you don't use the personal gateway but you use the on premises
gateway,
so the second option.
The result is the same, in the end you established a connection between the information in Power BI
desktop and Power BI service
and one important information maybe, the on premise a gateway is also a pro feature, just to make sure
that you know that.
So we don't have a server solution
right now, we only have our file locally saved on our computer
and with that, we answered both questions, right.
We now know what a gateway is and why we need it
and additionally we also know that we should use the personal gateway in our case. Now that we know that,
let's continue with our installation and start the gateway in the next video.